Security In the Cloud

Microsoft Defender for Cloud
–
Microsoft Defender for Cloud is a monitoring service that provides visibility of your security posture across all of your services, both on Azure and on-premises. Security posture refers to cybersecurity policies and controls and how well you can predict, prevent, and respond to security threats. Defender for Cloud can: 

● Monitor security settings across on-premises and cloud workloads. 

● Automatically apply required security settings to new resources as they come online. 

● Provide security recommendations based on your current configurations, resources, and networks. 

● Continuously monitor your resources and perform automatic security assessments to identify potential vulnerabilities before those vulnerabilities can be exploited. 

Microsoft Defender for Cloud has replaced Microsoft Security Centre.



Microsoft Sentinel
–
Security management on a large scale can benefit from a reliable security information and event management (SIEM) system. A SIEM system aggregates security data from many sources (as long as those sources support an open-standard logging format). It also provides capabilities for threat detection and response. 

Microsoft Sentinel enables you to: 

● Collect cloud data at scale. Collect data across all users, devices, applications, and infrastructure, both on-premises and multiple clouds. 

● Detect previously undetected threats. Minimise false positives by using Microsoft's comprehensive analytics and threat intelligence. 

● Investigate threats with artificial intelligence. Examine suspicious activities at scale, tapping into years of cybersecurity experience from Microsoft.


Azure Key Vault
–
Azure Key Vault is a centralised cloud service for storing an application's secrets in a single, central location. It provides access control and logging capabilities to secure access to sensitive information. 

Azure Key Vault can help you: 

● Manage secrets You can use Key Vault to store securely and tightly control access to tokens, passwords, certificates, API keys, and other secrets.  

● Manage encryption keys You can use Key Vault as a key management solution. Key Vault makes it easier to create and control the encryption keys to encrypt your data. 

● Manage SSL/TLS certificates Key Vault enables you to provision, manage, and deploy your public and private Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS) certificates for your Azure resources and your internal resources.

● Store secrets backed by hardware security modules (HSMs). These secrets and keys can be protected by software or FIPS 140-2 Level 2 validated HSMs.


Azure Dedicated Host
–
On Azure, virtual machines (VMs) run on shared hardware that Microsoft manages. Although the underlying hardware is shared, your VM workloads are isolated from workloads that other Azure customers run. 

Some organisations must follow regulatory compliance that requires them to be the only customer using the physical machine that hosts their virtual machines. 

Azure Dedicated Host provides dedicated physical servers to host your Azure VMs for Windows and Linux. 