Cloud Networking Services

Networking in the Cloud

Just like the compute service, the networking service is one which underpins nearly every other cloud service. 

Virtual networks are essential in providing the communication link between the cloud services and tools you provision and consume, so having an understanding of some of the basics will be essential, especially when it comes to troubleshooting.

Some of these network services are 'hidden', or abstracted into other services, and depending on the service you consume, and while you might not need to make any networking configuration changes, it's still important to know what they do at a high-level.


Azure virtual networks (VNet) enable Azure resources - such as virtual machines, web apps, and databases - to connect and communicate via a virtual link. 

That communication link can be configured to keep your resources isolated in the cloud, or you can configure it to connect to physical datacenters for your corporate office(s)


What capablilities does Azure virtual networking provide?

Just like a physical network, which is typically managed and configured through a router or firewall in a datacenter, virtual networks provides alsmost the same functionality and capabilities, and sometimes more!

With Azure, the virtual network service provides the following capabilities:

Network isolation and segmentation

Internet communications

Communicate between Azure resources

Communicate with on-premises resources

Route network traffic

Filter network traffic

Connect virtual networks



Virtual Network Capabilities

Isolation and segmentation
Azure allows you to create multiple isolated virtual networks. When you set up a virtual network, you define a private Internet Protocol (IP) address space, using either public or private IP address ranges. You can divide that IP address space into subnets, and allocate part of the defined address space to each named subnet. 

Internet communications
A VM in Azure can connect out to the Internet by default. You can enable incoming connections from the Internet by defining a public IP address or a public load balancer. For VM management, you can connect via the Azure Command Line Interface (CLI), Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), or Secure Shell (SSH).

Communicate between Azure resources
You'll want to enable Azure resources to communicate securely with each other. You can do that in one of two ways: 

Virtual networks: Virtual networks can connect not only VMs, but other Azure resources, such as the App Service Environment, Azure Kubernetes Service, and Azure virtual machine scale sets.

Service endpoints: You can use service endpoints to connect to other Azure resource types, such as Azure SQL databases and storage accounts. This approach enables you to link multiple Azure resources to virtual networks, thereby improving security and providing optimal routing between resources.


Communicate with on-premises resources
Azure virtual networks enable you to link resources together in your on-premises environment and within your Azure subscription, in effect creating a network that spans both your local and cloud environments. There are three mechanisms for you to achieve this connectivity: 

Point-to-site Virtual Private Networks This approach is like a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection that a computer outside your organization makes back into your corporate network, except that it's working in the opposite direction. In this case, the client computer initiates an encrypted VPN connection to Azure, connecting that computer to the Azure virtual network.

Site-to-site Virtual Private Networks A site-to-site VPN links your on-premises VPN device or gateway to the Azure VPN gateway in a virtual network. In effect, the devices in Azure can appear as being on the local network. The connection is encrypted and works over the Internet.
Azure ExpressRoute For environments where you need greater bandwidth and even higher levels of security, Azure ExpressRoute is the best approach. Azure ExpressRoute provides dedicated private connectivity to Azure that does not travel over the Internet.


Route network traffic
By default, Azure will route traffic between subnets on any connected virtual networks, on-premises networks, and the Internet. However, you can control routing and override those settings as follows: 

Route tables A route table allows you to define rules as to how traffic should be directed. You can create custom route tables that control how packets are routed between subnets.

Border Gateway Protocol Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) works with Azure VPN gateways or ExpressRoute to propagate on-premises BGP routes to Azure virtual networks.


Filter network traffic
Azure virtual networks enable you to filter traffic between subnets by using the following approaches:

Network security groups A network security group is an Azure resource that can contain multiple inbound and outbound security rules. You can define these rules to allow or block traffic, based on factors such as source and destination IP address, port, and protocol.
Network virtual appliances A network virtual appliance is a specialized VM that can be compared to a hardened network appliance. A network virtual appliance carries out a particular network function, such as running a firewall or performing Wide Area Network (WAN) optimization.

Connect virtual networks

You can link virtual networks together using virtual network peering. Peering enables resources in each virtual network to communicate with each other. These virtual networks can be in separate regions, allowing you to create a global interconnected network through Azure.


Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)s are virtual tunnels used by organisations to connect distributed offices and users over a secure (encrypted) connection. 

Just like the physical office or data center, businesses need a way to connect their on-premise data centers to their networks in the cloud. 

This is where VPN gateway's come in!

Azure VPN gateways 

A VPN gateway is a type of Virtual Network Gateway. VPN gateways are deployed in Azure virtual networks and enable the following connectivity:

Connect on-premises datacenters to Azure virtual networks through a site-to-site connection.

Connect individual devices to Azure virtual networks through a point-to-site connection.

Connect Azure virtual networks to other Azure virtual networks through a network-to-network connection.



2 Types of VPN

Policy-based VPNs
–
Policy-based VPN gateways specify statically the IP address of packets that should be encrypted through each tunnel. This type of device evaluates every data packet against those sets of IP addresses to choose the tunnel where that packet is going to be sent through. 

Key features of policy-based VPN gateways in Azure include:

Support for IKEv1 only.

Use of static routing, where combinations of address prefixes from both networks control how traffic is encrypted and decrypted through the VPN tunnel. The source and destination of the tunneled networks are declared in the policy and don't need to be declared in routing tables.

Policy-based VPNs must be used in specific scenarios that require them, such as for compatibility with legacy on-premises VPN devices.


Route-based VPNs
–
If defining which IP addresses are behind each tunnel is too cumbersome, route-based gateways can be used. With route-based gateways, IPSec tunnels are modeled as a network interface or Virtual Tunnel Interface (VTI). IP routing (either static routes or dynamic routing protocols) decide which one of these tunnel interfaces to use when sending each packet. Route-based VPNs are the preferred connection method for on-premises devices, since they are more resilient to topology changes such as the creation of new subnets.

Use a route-based VPN gateway if you need any of the following types of connectivity:

Connections between virtual networks

Point-to-site connections

Multisite connections

Coexistence with an Azure ExpressRoute gateway

Key features of route-based VPNs gateways in Azure include:

Supports IKEv2

Uses any-to-any (wildcard) traffic selectors

Can use dynamic routing protocols, where routing/forwarding tables direct traffic to different IPSec tunnels. In this case, the source and destination networks are not statically defined as they are in policy-based VPNs or even in route-based VPNs with static routing. Instead, data packets are encrypted based on network routing tables that are created dynamically using routing protocols such as BGP (Border Gateway Protocol).



Required Azure resources for deploying VPN Gateways

Virtual Network
Deploy a virtual network with enough address space for the additional subnet that you'll need for the VPN gateway. The address space for this virtual network must not overlap with the on-premises network that you'll be connecting to. You can deploy only one VPN gateway within a virtual network. 

Gateway Subnet
Deploy a subnet called GatewaySubnet for the VPN gateway. Use at least a /27  address mask to make sure you have enough IP addresses in the subnet for future growth. You can't use this subnet for any other services. 

Public IP Address
This address provides a public-routable IP address as the target for your on-premises VPN device. This IP address is dynamic, but it won't change unless you delete and re-create the VPN gateway. 

Locl Network Gateway
Create a local network gateway to define the on-premises network's configuration, such as where the VPN gateway will connect and what it will connect to. This configuration includes the on-premises VPN device's public IPv4 address and the on-premises routable networks. This information is used by the VPN gateway to route packets that are destined for on-premises networks through the IPSec tunnel

Virtual Network Gateway
Create the virtual network gateway to route traffic between the virtual network and the on-premises datacenter or other virtual networks. The virtual network gateway can be either a VPN or ExpressRoute gateway, but this unit only deals with VPN virtual network gateways. (You'll learn more about ExpressRoute in a separate lesson later in this module.) 

Connection
Create a connection resource to create a logical connection between the VPN gateway and the local network gateway.

The connection is made to the on-premises VPN device's IPv4 address as defined by the local network gateway.

The connection is made from the virtual network gateway and its associated public IP address.


Required on-premises resources 

To connect your datacenter to a VPN gateway, you'll need these on-premises resources:

A VPN device that supports policy-based or route-based VPN gateways
A public-facing (internet-routable) IPv4 address