Cloud Analytics Solutions

Data terminology: Big data vs data lakes

What is 'big data'?

'Big data' refers to collecting massive amounts of data, typically originating from several business applications and infrastructure, either virtual(Applications and Virtual infrastructure) or physical(IoT and other hardware devices).

What is a 'data lake'?

The term 'data lake' was coined by James Dixon, Founder and CTO of Pentaho. Today's big cloud providers present a similar definition of centrally storing vast amounts of different data types.



Data Analytics Solutions in Azure

Azure Synapse Analytics (formerly Azure SQL Data Warehouse) is a limitless analytics service that combines enterprise data warehousing and big data analytics. 
You can query data on your terms using serverless or provisioned resources at scale. 
You have a unified experience to ingest, prepare, manage, and serve data for immediate BI and machine learning needs. 


Azure HDInsight is a fully managed, open-source analytics service for enterprises. It's a cloud service that makes it easier, faster, and more cost-effective to process massive data. 
You can run popular open-source frameworks and create cluster types such as Apache Spark, Apache Hadoop, Apache Kafka, Apache HBase, Apache Storm, and Machine Learning Services. 
HDInsight also supports various extraction, transformation, and loading (ETL), data warehousing, machine learning, and IoT. 


Azure Databricks helps you unlock insights from all your data and build artificial intelligence solutions. You can set up your Apache Spark environment in minutes and then auto-scale and collaborate on shared projects in an interactive workspace. Azure Databricks supports Python, Scala, R, Java, and SQL and data science frameworks and libraries, including TensorFlow, PyTorch, and sci-kit-learn.


Azure Data Lake Analytics is an on-demand analytics job service that simplifies big data. Instead of deploying, configuring, and tuning hardware, you write queries to transform your data and extract valuable insights. The analytics service can instantly handle jobs of any scale by setting the dial for how much power you need. You only pay for your job when running, making it more cost-effective. 